---
title: Communication
prev_section: recruiting.html
next_section: muffin-protocol.html
---

h1. Communication

Our *main internal communication channels* are:
* "Unboard Meeting":unboard.html twice per year.
* Sync Up meetings (or mini-conferences). These happen about twice per year, in between the unboard meetings. Typically a half day or whole day with some kind of theme, like "how we make decisions" or "how we handle conflict" or "how we run courses".
* Team mailing list - a single mailing list with everyone on it. We use simple "email conventions":email-conventions.html to separate must-read stuff from general discussions, and the "Muffin protocol":bun-protocol.html to route client inquiries to the right consultant.
* "Board meetings":board.html every month.
* "Slack":http://www.slack.com for chattier stuff (previously Skype)


Most decisions are made, and most problems solved, in one of the above forums.


Where we *store info*:
* Google Docs - we used it for almost everything now a days. Our main doc is the "dashboard":dashboard.html
* Dropbox - we have a dropbox business account that we used for shared docs that don't fit in google docs.
* GitHub - a github organization account for shared code and, well, the Syncopate DNA that you are reading right now.

How we *communicate with the outside world*:
* Our website - "www.Syncopate.com.au":http://www.Syncopate.com.au
* A mailing list for our customers and course participants, we send information about upcoming courses about once or twice per quarter. 
* Twitter - our twitter handle is "@Syncopate":https://twitter.com/Syncopate/
* "Facebook":https://www.facebook.com/Syncopate.se
* ... but the biggest channel of communication is of course the personal and informal channels - Syncopateers tweeting, blogging, and talking to friends and customers. Together we have a huge network!

