---
title: Syncopate DNA
next_section: what-is-syncopate.html
---
h1. What is this?

Syncopate is a consulting company based in Sydney, Australia. But we aren't a very typical consulting company. For example:

* None of the consultants are actually employed by us
* We have no managers, not even a CEO. Instead we rely on self-organisation and transparency. Almost everything is bottom-up, and "anyone can drive any decision":decisions.html.
* Syncopate's main purpose is to enable consultants to be happy, and "Happiness Index":happiness-index.html is our driving metric. Strong revenue and delighted customers are a side effect, not a goal.
* Syncopate doesn't want to earn money from it's consultants. It is in practice a non-profit company (although not formally so). Consultants "keep most of what they earn":economic-model.html.
* Our "ownership model":ownership-model.html is designed to keep our stock financially worthless. There is no incentive to "cash in".
* Consultants are 100% autonomous. They can do whatever they want (as long as they don't hurt the brand or "our house":what-is-Syncopate.html), and work as much or as little as they want.


h2. Driving principles

(these principles drive almost everything at Syncopate)

* "What is Syncopate":what-is-Syncopate.html - the purpose of the company
* "How Syncopate works":how-Syncopate-works.html - summary of our model, and some driving principles.
* "Why this works":why-this-works.html - why this model has served us so well

h3. Core structure and practices

(although these are core to our model, they are mostly just consequences of the principles above)

* "Happiness index":happiness-index.html - how do we know if we are succeeding?
* "Ownership model":ownership-model.html - how do people become owners, and what ownership actually means?
* "Economic model":economic-model.html - how does money flow through the system?
* "How we make decisions":decisions.html - how do decisions get made when there is no manager?
* "Recruiting":recruiting.html - how do new people get in?
* "Communication":communication.html - how do we collaborate, sync, and improve?
* "Bun protocol":bun-protocol.html - how do we handle customer enquiries and route to the right consultant?
* "Dashboard":dashboard.html - how do we see the big picture?
* "Office team":office-team.html - how do we handle admin and day-to-day operations?
* "Board of directors":board.html - Swedish law requires that we have a BoD. So how does the BoD at Crisp work?
* "Our business":our-business.html - what type of work we do
* "Visions":visions.html - How to you get a bunch of autonomous consultants to agree on a vision? Answer: have several :o)
* "Sales":sales.html - how do we actually sell consultants?

h4. Supporting practices

(relevant stuff, but not core to our model)

* "Email conventions":email-conventions.html - how we get transparency without information overflow
* "Hand signals":hand-signals.html - how do have discussions in larger groups?
* "Industries that we avoid":industries-that-we-avoid.html - why we avoid certain industries
* "Hack summit":hack-summit.html - how we geek out together
* "Conflict handling":conflict-handling.html - How do we make sure conflicts are constructive rather than destructive?
* "Contracts":contracts.html - our internal contracts for Syncopate membership, ownership, etc.
* "Building competence":building-competence.html - how we learn from each other and improve
* "Courses and event production":courses-and-event-production.html - how do courses and events get produced?
* "Brand building":brand-building.html - how do we build the brand, both Syncopate and personal brands?







We cloned the Crisp DNA. Want to start a similar org? See "How to clone the Crisp DNA":how-to-copy.html.







